# Assignment-Audio-Player-with-Load-Balancer

This application is a local client-server audio player that has the ability to balance the load of multiple clients/threads between multiple servers. The module that required it regarded distributed systems and their ability to run smoothly by utilizing various programming techniques and technologies in general.

The program's basic layout was given to us beforehand (the application could already connect clients/threads with servers) and we were tasked to create an audio playback and streaming service, build a load balancer (LB) of our choice and add user registration, logging in and authentication functionality. It was written using the [Apache NetBeans](https://netbeans.apache.org/front/main/) 15 IDE.

I initially designed a dynamic least connection LB (assigned clients to the server currently serving the least of them), that was working normally until I added code to substract the number of active clients, when one disconnects. I could not fix the thread synchronization problem and so I stopped working on it and instead implemented a simple, weighted round robin load balancing algorithm (assigns clients to one server based on its abilities/weight and then moves on to the next one, according to a fixed sequence). I have kept the old LB's code as well as the problem's description as comments.

After building the project, you have to run 3 different files/classes, to use the program. You first run the load balancer/bootstrap node (LoadBalancerInit.java) once, then the server node (AudioServerInit.java) three times, creating 3 audio servers, and lastly any number of client nodes you
want to (ClientInitialization.java). The 3 servers' port number has been hard-coded, so they must run on ports 5001, 5002 and 5003.

The program's use is pretty straightforward: You either create an account (I can't say I'm proud of my work here, this was not the assignment's focus anyway), whose credentials are permanently saved in a .txt file, or just log in. After the program authenticates you, you are provided with a list of the available songs and can choose one to listen to by typing its number. You can also pause, resume and stop its playback and of course select a different one to listen to. The only flaw is that the first time you pause a song, it next resumes at an instance very slightly ahead from where you paused it (I don't know why this happens).
